## Determining strategic supplier project:
### Project intro:
    This project was trying to use statistical models to determine whether a supplier was strategic. The data was collected 
    on a capital equipment company's purchasing department. Some of the data were available in the company's system while
    other data like trust rating was derived over surveys. Relevant data was collected over 38 suppliers.
      
     The input data include data from five areas : 
     1) supplier's financial rating:
       variable name is 'credit_score'.There is a credit score generated by a financial tool with basic financial
       information provided by a suppllier.This is a mandatory piece of information for awarding new business.
       
     2) delivery information: 
        there is information on each supplier about past due quanty per week and past due part number (the type
        of parts past due) per week on the same 52 week interval.
        
     3) new business awarded to the supplier(a way to measure competitiveness):
        shows the amount that the new business in dollars that has been awarded to each supplier on a part number level     
     4) supplier quality metrics:
        provided quality score with possible range from 0 to 100.     
        
     5) trust score with the supplier:
        9 participants within supplier quality, 
     
     The output data is :
     whether a supplier is strategic. This information is provided by buyers responsible for the particular supplier.
            
### engingeered features and other variables dictionary for the models:
    Below is a short description of the variables and explanation of how the features are engineered 
    1) turnover ratio: numeric data type between 0 and 1. This describes the turnover of the supplier in compared to the 
                        group of suppliers that the supplier is in.
                        
    2) credit score:  engineered feature and binary variable. Because over 30% of the suppliers are missing this info. 
                      This variable has been transformed into a factors with 0 representing missing data and 1 representing
                      having valid financial score.
     
    3) quality score: numeric data type with possible values between 1 and 100. This data abstracted from the quality monitoring
                      system of the company in the case study.
                      
    4) mean_ps_qty_norm: engineered feature that took the average of quantity of past due parts for each supplier for each week 
                        and then normalized across suppliers in the study.
                        
    5) mean_ps_pn_norm: engineered feature that took the average of the amount of different part number types for each supplier each
                        week then normalized across suppliers in the study.
                        
    6) avg_trust_rating: engineered feature that took the average of the ratings across all survey participants and questions. 
    
    7) total_added_turnover_n: engineered feature that took the sum of new business awarded to each supplier in the past three years
                              aggreated over part number and years. This variable is numeric.
    8) turnover_ratio_f: engineered feature. This is a categorical version of the variable "turnover ratio". Depending 
                          on the value of "turnover ratio", this variable could be classified as either "low"(represented by 1) or 
                          "high" (represented by 2)
    
      9) quality_score_f: engineered feature. This is a categorical version of the variable "quality_score". Depending on the value \
                          of "quality score",this variable could be classified as either "low"(represented by 1) or "high" 
                          (represented by 2)
    
    10) total_added_turnover_f: engineered feature. This is a categorical version of the variable " total_added_turnover_n". 
                                Depending on the value of "turnover ratio",this variable could be classified as either "low"
                                (represented by 1) or "high" (represented by 2)
    
    11) trust_rating_f: engineered feature. This is a categorical version of the variable " trust rating". 
                                Depending on the value of "turnover ratio",this variable could be classified as either "low"
                                (represented by 1) or "high" (represented by 2)
    12) delivery_rating_f:engineered feature. This is a categorical version of the variable " mean_ps_qty_norm", and "mean_ps_pn_norm". 
                                Depending on the value of those two variables,this variable could be classified as either "low"
                                (represented by 1) or "high" (represented by 2)
    
    13) strategic: output variable. 0 means not strategic and 1 means strategic. This data is provided directly by buyers has
                                the authority to determine whether a supplier is strategic.
    
visualization 
 *

#### Data Cleansing

#### EDA

#### Statistical Methods

